---
layout: post
title: My PhD on Cybercrime Analytics
description: Experiences in security and research
tags: [phd security research]
category: research
author: robertlayton
image:
  background: triangular.png
---

I completed my PhD between 2008 to 2011 in the [Internet Commerce Security Laboratory](https://federation.edu.au/icsl) at Federation University Australia.
My Supervisor for the project was Professor Paul Watters and Associate Supervisor was Associate Professor Richard Dazeley.
In the project I worked with Westpac Banking Corporation and other partners on real data and real problems in cybercrime.

My PhD research investigated the use of Authorship Analysis to link together cyberattacks, specifically investigating phishing attacks.
The work predominately used unsupervised cluster analysis to achieve the goal of clustering attacks by author.
I also developed new techniques on authorship analysis, including Recentred Local Profiles.

I also performed other experiments on authorship, including my most cited work on authorship analysis in twitter messages.
In that work I showed that high accuracy can be obtained on tweets, despite them being about 100 times shorter than other documents previously studied in the area.

My thesis was accepted with only minor changes and I received my doctorate degree in 2012.
While I cannot release the thesis or datasets, all of the important chapters have been [released independently as published research](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=7OkhvkMAAAAJ&hl=en).
